Eighteen 2020 matriculants are on their way to a career in the mining industry thanks to Impala’s bursary programme for external candidates. This year also sees the addition of a brand-new bursary – The Future Women in Mining Bursary. Impala’s investment in the 2021 intake of bursars over the next four years is R10 million, with the all-inclusive bursaries covering tuition, accommodation, books, and pocket money, as well as paid vacation work for many of the students. Second-year students receive laptops from the mine, and mentoring by Impala’s Bursary Department continues throughout the bursary period. Mark Munroe, CEO of Impala Rustenburg, stated that the bursary programme, which has been running for over 20 years, has made a difference to many young lives in the local communities, creating opportunities for successful careers both at Impala and further afield in the mining industry. Read: Impala invests in the future of Rustenburg youth Promoting equal representation Of the 18 successful bursars, 16 are from local mining communities. The seven men and 11 women were selected from 11 high schools in the Rustenburg area. They will be studying a wide range of disciplines, including mining, mechanical, chemical and electrical engineering, at various universities, including Wits, Pretoria, University of Johannesburg, and North West University in Potchefstroom. The first Future Women in Mining bursar is Dulcie Kagisho from Paardekraal who has been accepted to study Mechanical Engineering at the University of Pretoria. Munroe stated, “It’s crucial for our mining industry to be more representative of our population and to encourage women to pursue the many opportunities available to them throughout the mining processes.” He added that youth development is a key priority for Impala, and the company provides a number of programmes that assist youth to further their careers. This includes the bursary programme that is contributing to the number of skilled graduates in the country’s mining community; the Cadet programme that develops critical mining skills among unemployed youth within the local communities to increase their opportunities to find employment in the mining sector; and a comprehensive Enterprise and Supplier Development programme.