Assay results from the high-grade deposit, Koula, at the Séguéla Gold Project in Côte d’Ivoire, while still early, build on Roxgold’s confidence in the potential for Koula to conceptually extend its life via a high-grade underground operation. This makes Roxgold’s venture a focus for West Africa over the medium-to-long-term. Read more articles about gold As Séguéla moves closer to a construction decision, we continue to push towards the goal of defining additional mineralization in support of our vision of Séguéla becoming a 150,000 ounce per year producer over ten plus years,” comments John Dorward, President and Chief Executive Officer of Roxgold. Related:Roxgold exceeds 2020 production guidanceRoxgold breaks ground at Séguéla ahead of gold production in 2022 “The assay results, while still early, build our confidence in the potential for Koula to conceptually extend its life via a high-grade underground operation. Read more articles about West Africa “The strength of mineralization at depth at Koula is similar to what we were seeing at depth down-plunge in Ancien last year – a program which was temporarily put on hold in order to infill and upgrade the in-pit defined Inferred Mineral Resource at Koula for inclusion into the upcoming Feasibility study. Read more articles about exploration “While we had initially viewed Koula as an attractive satellite opportunity it is now clear that it has the potential to be the most important deposit defined at Séguéla so far. “In addition, our drills have resumed extension testing at Ancien, the other ultra-high-grade deposit discovered to date. “We continue to believe we have only begun to tap the potential of the Séguéla Project and are eager to continue to uncover and test the wealth of additional targets present on the property. While our exploration team continues their work at Séguéla, the critical path for the Séguéla project plan is on track with the Feasibility Study scheduled for the second quarter of this year, followed soon thereafter by a construction decision towards the goal of achieving first gold pour at Séguéla in 2022.” Paul Weedon, Vice President Exploration comments: “Building off the recent high-grade results from the conclusion of the infill program, these new results highlight the potential for an underground target extending down-plunge from Koula and provide a high degree of confidence in the high grades over at least 150 m down-plunge. “Coupled with the14m at 4.3 g/t intersected in SGRD971 we see mineralization extending at least 250 m at depth and I am looking forward to the results from the next round of step-out drilling, which is testing the potential a further 120 m down-plunge.”