The new WEG SSW900 soft-starters are the ideal choice for complete motor control and protection. These units allow quick and simple access to application information and configuration settings in any installation throughout a wide range of industrial segments where a three-phase induction motor needs to be controlled. Read more articles about Zest WEG With its well-structured menu interface, the WEG SSW900 line gives users a new level of interactivity, including Bluetooth connectivity. These soft-starters provide event logs with dates and times, as well as a setup and programming assistance. The built-in bypass extends the lifespan of the units, optimising space and reducing heat dissipation inside electric panels. This built-in bypass functionality also extends throughout the WEG soft starter product range, up to 1400 Amps. By allowing the smooth acceleration and deceleration of motors by controlling the voltage, soft-starters greatly reduce mechanical stresses on couplings and transmission devices during the start-up of a motor. In pumping applications, the smart control prevents water hammer and pressure overshoots in hydraulic piping. Available from Zest WEG and its network of branches and value-added resellers in current ranges from 10 A to 1,400 A – and for supply voltages from 220 V to 575 V AC – the WEG SSW900 soft-starters can operate at ambient temperatures of up to 55°C without current derating. They can substitute direct online starters or star-delta starters, bringing a range of benefits to the user’s application. These include savings in electricity, as well as greater protection and increased durability of the electric motor. Users also have access to diagnosis and fault history, and experience greater flexibility as the WEG SSW900 allows the installation of accessories in the application. Graphic monitoring and customisable main screens provide further convenience. The monitoring functionality is also extended by a USB connector available on all standard products. This provides access free of charge to product software available on www.weg.net.