It’s not often to we get to report on a mining project in Togo! With that in mind it’s great to see that Keras Resources has updated its latest ESG initiatives, specifically at the Nayéga Manganese Mine in Northern Togo. These activities include the formation of the ‘Nayéga Foundation’. In compliance with Decree No 2017-023/PR, Société Générale de Mines SA (SGM) will contribute 0.75% of revenue from manganese sales at Nayéga to the public treasury to be used for community projects in the vicinity of the Nayéga mine. Read more articles about ESG This fund is managed by a committee, as legislated by the Decree, comprising community leaders, representatives of the Ministry of Mines and Energy and a representative from SGM. Read more articles about West Africa In addition to this regulatory requirement Keras has now undertaken to fund the Nayéga Foundation which will provide another platform for the development of community, environmental and sustainability projects, reflecting Keras’ commitment as a responsible corporate citizen of Togo. Read more articles about manganese Keras intends to contribute 5% of its attributable net profit from SGM to the Nayéga Foundation on an annual basis.  The Company is currently focussed on establishing the appropriate ESG framework and structures in Togo to support the Foundation and the communities in the vicinity of the Nayéga Manganese Mine. CEO Russell Lamming and COO Graham Stacey are currently at Nayéga undertaking a site visit and meeting with community leaders and a delegation from the Ministry of Mines to ensure an open and inclusive process for the development of the Nayéga Foundation. The first project is a clean water initiative which will provide four water stations for both the community and their livestock with water supplied by the infrastructure installed during the 2019 bulk sample project. Russell Lamming, CEO of Keras Resources, commented, “ESG is a key component of any mining project or company and needs to be incorporated into a project’s DNA from the outset. “The development of the Nayéga mine, which will be 100% operated by a Togolese workforce, will make a significant positive impact on the local community and the Nayéga Foundation will compound that benefit. “This trip to Togo has included meetings with key government officials and community leaders to make sure that all structures are in place for when commercial production commences at Nayéga.  I look forward to updating shareholders on our progress in both Togo and Utah.”