As at 15 December 2020, ZAC has achieved 4 474 fatality free shifts and has gone 16 months without recording a lost time injury with the last recorded lost time injury having occurred in June 2019. These are great achievements which were achieved by: working together as a team, sharing ideas and information, enforcing self-discipline and compliance. Read more articles about Zululand Anthracite Colliery Furthermore, ZAC has only recorded a total of 7 COVID-19 positive cases. One of those was our colleague, Mining Shift Leader Happy Twala, who sadly passed away owing to COVID-19 complications. We wish his family our heartfelt condolences. ZAC Chief Safety Officer Sabelo Ngema is proud to be part of the ZAC team. He has been with ZAC since 1985 and has seen the mine go through many ups and downs, noting that 2020 has been the toughest year the mine has ever experienced during his tenure. He notes that it has been important to continuously emphasize that all colleagues adhere to COVID-19 protocols, which in the main means to wearing their masks correctly (fully covering the mouth and nose), washing their hands regularly, maintaining physical distances of 1.5 meters wherever possible and temperature screening, regularly cleaning of work areas and vehicles. “We also urged all our colleagues to avoid going to large gatherings over the Christmas period and practice extreme caution when meeting with loved ones over the festive period. It is crucial to remain vigilant and avoid close contact as the risk of contracting COVID-19 is still very real. “There will be an extensive screening process when colleagues return to work in January to mitigate against colleagues falling ill, at ZAC on their return. The ZAC clinic is ready to assist all staff with their medical needs and attend to anyone who shows symptoms including the utilising of a dedicated isolation room,” Sabelo states. *Tragically, Sabelo Ngema passed away prior to the publication this newsletter. Sabelo was loyal and dedicated member of the ZAC family for over 35 years and will be deeply missed by all those who had the honour and pleasure of knowing and working with him. May His Dearly Departed Soul Rest in Eternal Peace.