As preposterous as this sounds – bear with me. Last week I learnt about the “Siege of Jadotville.” It was a significant event that took place in a tumultuous period of politics, not just globally, but in the Congo. In 1961 many African countries were still stuck in the simmering cauldron of colonialism, nationalism and shaking off the stains of imperialism. In the northern hemisphere, Ireland, an outlier in the story so far had detached itself from England in 1922. It joined the United Nations in 1955 and was effectively thrown into the, mostly, messy affairs of defending other new independent states. Read more articles about the DRC One of these was the Congo. It had, along with several other African states, declared independence in the years following the Second World War. However, having turned against its European ruler, Belgium, the newly-formed government was ill-prepared for its new role. Read more feature and analysis articles As a result, the United Nations Security Council set up an operation in the Congo to support it (Opération des Nations Unies au Congo). Moise Tshombe with support from several European countries, declared the resource-rich province of Katanga independent of the DRC. This resulted in the United Nations finding itself party to a civil war between the central government and Katanga, which was also supported by Rhodesia and South Africa. The battle lines for the rich mining region, with reserves of cobalt, copper, tin, radium, uranium, and diamonds were drawn. An Irish Army infantry battalion was dispatched to Jadotville (Likasi), a strategic town in Katanga with orders to protect the mainly Belgian population. On paper the mission was simple. However, it ended up being a desperate life or death fight, pitting the Irish against a well-armed enemy. Katangan troops supported by European mercenaries outnumbered the Irish force 20 to one. The attack on the Irish positions began on 13 September. A common theory for the attack is centred on the Katangans wanting to capture Irish forces as prisoners to use as leverage while negotiating with the United Nations. By 17 September, having been overrun and routed, the Irish had to surrender. Five weeks later the United Nations negotiated their release and the Irish soldiers were home by December. Moving from this factual event to a fictional movie, Blood Diamond, in which Colonel Coetzee looks into the horizon philosophically and says: “This red earth, it’s in our skin. The Shona say the colour comes from all the blood that’s been spilled fighting over the land. This is home. You’ll never leave Africa.” The more I learn about our continent’s hidden history,  the weight of this quote becomes increasingly apparent. In this case, despite returning to Ireland, the Irish soldiers from Jadotville, have indeed, never left Africa.