The World Gold Council, the market development organisation for the gold industry, has announced Aura Minerals, B2Gold and Sandstorm Gold Royalties have joined its Board of Members. Randy Smallwood, Chair of the World Gold Council, commented: “I am delighted to welcome three new members to the World Gold Council. Each of them will bring a different area of expertise to our organization and I look forward to collaborating with them in 2021 and beyond. Working together, our industry can only become stronger.” Read more articles about gold Aura Minerals is a fast growth gold and copper production company focused on the development and operation of gold and base metal projects in the Americas. Aura owns four operational projects and has four under study in its pipeline. Read more articles about The World Gold Council Rodrigo Barbosa, President & CEO, Aura Minerals said: “We are pleased to be joining the World Gold Council. I look forward to collaborating with Members to help us achieve our ambition to build a stronger, smarter, and sustainable mining company and industry.” B2Gold is a low-cost international senior gold producer with three operating gold mines and numerous exploration and development projects in various countries including Mali, Colombia, Burkina Faso, Finland and Uzbekistan. Clive Johnson, President, CEO & Director, B2Gold, commented: “Joining the World Gold Council is key to our corporate strategy, which is focused on generating ‘dramatic growth’ in gold production and cash flow. We look forward to working with the Council and its membership.” Sandstorm Gold Royalties was founded in 2008 and has since become one of the largest gold royalty companies in the world. Sandstorm has acquired a portfolio of 201 royalties, of which 24 of the underlying mines are producing. Nolan Watson, President, CEO & Director, Sandstorm Gold Royalties, said: “We are excited to join the World Gold Council’s Board of Members. We already work with a number of the Council’s members through our network of royalties around the world and look forward to collaborating with more of the world’s leading gold mining companies.” In addition, Shandong Zhaojin Group has joined The Council’s Board of Members. Zhaojin Group is located in Zhaoyuan City, Shandong Province, which is famous for its rich gold. The company was founded in 1974 and since then, has formed a complete gold industrial chain covering gold exploration, mining, ore dressing, smelting, refining, gold and silver products processing and marketing. Randy Smallwood, Chair of the World Gold Council, commented: “I am honoured to welcome Zhaojin Group to the World Gold Council. China is the world’s leading gold market as both the largest consumer and producer of gold. “As such, we are pleased to see the World Gold Council expand to now include four Chinese member companies. It is important that we continue to grow our China Chapter, working with key players in the industry such as Zhaojin Group.” Lu Jin, Chair of the World Gold Council’s China Chapter, commented: “I am delighted to welcome Zhaojin group to our membership in China. Their long history and experience across the entire gold industry will make them a valuable addition to the World Gold Council membership and I look forward to working with them. Weng Zhanbin, Chairman of Zhaojin Group, commented: “We are excited to be part of the work that the World Gold Council is leading in China as our market continues to grow. I am looking forward to working with like-minded companies here in China, and the entire World Gold Council membership.”