Firefinch has announced the appointment of Dr Michael Anderson as Managing Director (with effect from 6th April 2021). Anderson is a respected and high performing resource industry executive with extensive management and technical experience – in both Africa and Australia – built up over a career spanning 30 years. Related:Firefinch’s Morila: Soaring swiftly to greater heightsFirefinch looks to demerge Goulamina lithium projectFirefinch calls out Malian Tax Department Anderson joins Firefinch from Taurus Funds Management. Taurus manages A$2.5 billion of funds invested across commodities and geographies. Read more articles about gold Michael has had substantial African experience, having helped to lead Taurus’ investment into numerous West African gold producers. He also acted in an executive capacity for a copper producer and represented the fund’s interests on the Board of several investee companies. Read more articles about lithium As Managing Director of Exco Resources, Anderson led the Company to a number of major achievements. These included transitioning from explorer to profitable producer through the successful development of the White Dam Gold Mine; advancement of resource development, feasibility studies and approvals for the Cloncurry Copper Project ahead of its ultimate sale to Xstrata for A$175 million; numerous funding arrangements and significant share price re-rating and a fivefold increase in market capitalisation. Read more articles about battery metals Anderson holds a Bachelor of Science (1st Class Honours in Mining Geology) and a Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) in Mining Geology both from the Royal School of Mines, Imperial College, University of London. Dr Alistair Cowden has acted as Executive Chairman over the past year and will resume the role of Non-Executive Chairman; he will retain carriage of the Goulamina Lithium Project partnering and demerger process until an executive team are appointed to the new lithium company. Firefinch’s Executive Chairman, Dr Alistair Cowden, comments: “We welcome Michael Anderson to the Firefinch team and I am personally delighted to have such a high-calibre individual to lead the Company during this exciting phase in its corporate life. Michael brings a proven track record for execution, value creation and understanding of mining projects. Michael is very well known to the industry and the investment community and brings a deep, global investor network. We are thrilled with his appointment.”