ALCO-Safe (Pty) Ltd is the major supplier of quality electronic Breath Alcohol Detectors and accessories in South Africa with 43 years of experience in manufacturing, distribution and support. The company has over three thousand clients to which tens of thousands of Lion Alcolmeters® have been supplied. ALCO-Safe (Pty) Ltd also supplies drug detection equipment utilising individual urine and saliva test kits as well as electronic instrumentation which provides an analysis and printout of the presence of up to six different types of drugs within minutes. Superior equipment supplied Only professional grade instrumentation is distributed and knowledge of state-of-the-art technology and of effective measurement techniques is maintained through regular communication with world leaders in these areas. ALCO-Safe represents LION – CMI – the a world leader in Alcohol Detection Technology. Instruments for all situations Instruments supplied include high speed testers capable of testing up to six people per minute at site entrance or exit points for example, as well as portable instruments for use at remote sites, which provide immediate printed evidence. Full repair and calibration capability A complete, rapid repair and calibration service is provided. Training and certification of personnel in the correct operation and calibration of instruments is regularly undertaken. Awareness presentations/operator training Internal awareness programmes are offered to management and workforce representatives, highlighting alcohol’s many negative effects in the workplace. This effectively addresses issues such as contribution to accidents, injuries, productivity, absenteeism and many other loss areas; testing techniques; legal aspects; bodily alcohol concentration with elapsed time versus consumption; many myths; health problems and other matters. Large and diversified client base ALCO-Safe has, over many years, assisted a large number of organisations large and small. This has ranged from the          supply of equipment only, to the development of substance abuse programmes and their implementation on a national basis. ALCO-Safe (Pty) Ltd initiated the development of comprehensive substance abuse programmes in South Africa in the early 1990s. Organisations that have benefitted from the solutions – to name a few – include Transnet, Eskom mining groups, Prasa, Transnet Rail Engineering, Transnet Freight Rail, all the petroleum refineries, ArcelorMittal, Tongaat-Hulett, Sappi, major vehicle manufacturers and municipalities. Contact: Tel: + 27 (0) 12-343 8114 Email: info@alcosafe.co.za