What project has my attention this week? Resolute Mining’s Tabakoroni gold project in Mali. Why? As the company succinctly puts it, the project has the potential to be a new underground gold mine at Syama. Naturally I’m interested. Syama is in my opinion Africa’s first fully (or almost fully) automated mine, and for those who say Africa isn’t ready to embrace digital, Syama has proven them wrong. Read more articles about gold Being underground, internet signal and poor skills sets, traditionally the challenges blamed for not executing a technology driven mine in Africa, posed no difficulty to Syama – and in time to come, will extend to Tabakoroni as well I am sure. Read more articles about Resolute Mining My statements thus far are not based on opinions, they are based on fact. Last week Resolute Mining announced an updated Mineral Resource Estimate from ongoing exploration success at Tabakoroni. The Tabakoroni Mineral Resource has been upgraded to 8.1 Mt at 4.9 g/t gold for a total of 1.26 Moz. The mineralisation at Tabakoroni also remains open both along strike and at depth and continued exploration success is expected to expand Mineral Resources and further extend mine life. Resolute Mining also highlighted that diamond drilling in the second half of 2020 identified a coherent high-grade lens of mineralisation located underneath the South oxide pit at Tabakoroni. Subsequent drilling activities focussed on fully outlining this new zone which was ultimately successful with the return of a number of additional high-grade results including: • TADD817 – 26 m @ 9.69 g/t from 302 m • TADD833 – 18 m @ 11.20 g/t from 317 m The combination of the new high-grade mineralisation underneath the South oxide pit and additional ore grade drill intersections returned underneath the Namakan pit combined to dramatically increase the tonnage in the global resource estimate. The drilling programme for 2021 will concentrate on infilling and expanding the high-grade mineralisation underneath the South pit at Tabakoroni. A drill density of 50 m centres will be required to classify this new zone as Indicated Resources. Drilling in 2021 will also follow up the deep intersection in TADD781 of 9 m @ 5.24 g/t gold located on the extreme northern end of the TMSZ. This intersection was reported previously and is located well outside the current resource envelope. No doubt Resolute Mining is on to something even greater at Syama than it has already delivered. I’m taking note – are you?