AIM-listed Katoro Gold has commenced its maiden drill programme targeting the discovery of nickel and platinum group metals at the Haneti nickel project in Tanzania. Tanzania – Katoro holds a 65% interest in Haneti with 35% held by Power Metal Resources. Louis Coetzee, chairman of Katoro Gold commented: “We are very excited to see the first exploration drill programme at Haneti now underway and look forward to updating shareholders as the work progresses.” Haneti covers an area of approximately 5 000 km2 in central Tanzania approximately 88 km north of the capital city Dodoma. It comprises tenements prospective for nickel, PGMs and gold. One of the key exploration objectives for the JV partners at Haneti is to delineate the potential for economic nickel mineralisation on the linear dyke-like, Haneti-Itiso Ultramafic Complex (HIUC), which sporadically crops out over a strike length of 80 km through the centre of the tenement holding. The HIUC mainly comprises serpentinites (metamorphosed ultrabasic rocks such as dunite and peridotite), with metabasic rocks such as metagabbro and metadolerite and is being targeted for a Chonolith-Type Nickel exploration model. Read: Haneti teeming with potential Activities in line with international standards An initial three target areas have been selected for RAB (rotary air blast) drilling: Milhanza Hill; Mwaka Hill; and Igari Hill. These targets are based on the recommendations of the 2012 AEM survey, the detailed field programme undertaken in 2013, and further supplementary exploration findings. The planned 2 000 metres RAB drilling programme will consist approximately 50 holes drilled on linear fences across the targets. The programme will seek to verify the existence of near surface nickel sulphide mineralisation at each target whilst increasing the geological understanding such that the orientation and the meterage of a planned follow-up diamond drill programme can be optimised to confirm the scale of any nickel sulphide mineralisation. The drilling is being conducted by an experienced Tanzanian company in line with international best practice and in accordance with health and safety and COVID-19 precautions.