Date: 2-3 February 2021 Where: Online Website Times may be uncertain, but one thing is for sure, February in the African mining industry means one thing, Mining Indaba. We couldn’t let February pass without delivering the unmissable insights, multi-stakeholder discussions and keynotes you’ve come to expect from us these past 27 years.Best of all, registration is officially open and it’s free to attend! We may not be celebrating in sunny Cape Town this year, but Mining Indaba Virtual is set to be big, you really won’t want to miss it. Mining Indaba has always attracted inspirational speakers of the highest quality and next year’s online conference is no exception. The latest speakers confirmed so far include:• H.E. Cyril Ramaphosa, President, South Africa• H.E. Julius Maada Bio, President, Sierra Leone• H.E. Félix Tshisekedi, President, Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC)• Hon. Gwede Mantashe, Minister of Mineral Resources & Energy, Republic of South Africa• Mark Cutifani, Chief Executive, Anglo American• Mxolisi Mgojo, CEO, Exxaro Resources• Alfred Baku, Executive Vice President, Gold Fields• Roger Baxter, CEO, Minerals Council South Africa• Neal Froneman, CEO, Sibanye-Stillwater• Fortune Mojapelo, CEO, Bushveld MineralsThat’s not all you can expect from Mining Indaba Virtual… it’s now officially CPD certified! It’s your unmissable opportunity to hear from leading industry experts and government leaders counting towards your professional development. Content sessions are free to attend, so you can gain rare access to pioneering insights and multi-stakeholder discussions normally reserved for paying delegates. Start exploring the agenda today.Join us and major industry names to celebrate the resilience, innovations and spirit of our sector. Together, they will be tackling everything from using mining to reboot national economies to embracing ESG in the boardroom and the rise of gold in the pandemic by registering your free place today.Time is running out to maximise your brand exposure at Mining Indaba VirtualWith the attendee list growing rapidly, so is the exposure we can offer you. Mining Indaba Virtual is set to attract a high-level, unrivalled audience. With our customised sponsorship packages, you’ll be able to tap into a new community of prospective clients, uncover rich data and receive the ultimate brand exposure!Join Anglo American, Minerals Council South Africa, Standard Bank, Exxaro Resources, Absa, Vivo Energy, Deloitte, Investec, White & Case and Webber Wentzel as a sponsor of Mining Indaba Virtual. Why sponsor Mining Indaba Virtual?• Tap into a new community of prospective clients with our vast online reach• Convey your post-pandemic success stories on our global stage• Be seen by the sector’s most high-profile, c-suite executives and decision-makers• Position your brand alongside the biggest and most established brands• A track record of providing a stage for heads of state that attract the world’s mediaDownload the sponsorship brochure to find out how we can help you to be seen as a market leader and innovator at Mining Indaba.