2020 was a year of many firsts with countless lessons learnt across the board. For the mining sector – key issues for 2021 will be on adopting lessons from the successful response to the pandemic to other aspects of risk management within their businesses; continuing to build a culture of sustainability and managing the risks of environmental pollution. Read more about mining in South Africa Adapting the lessons learnt from Covid-19 The mining industry’s response to Covid-19 in helping employees to cope has largely been lauded. Although key lessons learnt from the approach to managing the risks posed by the pandemic relate primarily to employee and public health, these can be applied to other areas of business. Read more about the affect of Covid-19 on the mining industry Organisations that coped best were those which already had a culture of resilience and adaptability and communicated with their employees, making them feel valued. The most effective responses were those led by the most senior executives in a company, and mining companies showed how fully engaged executives were able to bring employees back to work, safely and as soon as permitted and practicable. Key role players and decisionmakers had to identify where their roles had to change and take on new roles, either as the law or their internal risk strategies changed. In future, the lines between work and home will continue to be blurred and the Labour Court has indicated that occupational health cannot necessarily be separated from public health issues. The occupational medical practitioner (OMP), in addition, to issuing all employees with a certificate of fitness before they could work at a mine also had to consider potential vulnerability to employees to a possible future event .Will this become a standard for all possible future vulnerabilities, or be limited to COVID-19? This has certain consequences: Employers will have to consider whether and how to terminate employment of vulnerable employees who cannot obtain a certificate of fitness because of possible future health complications. Read more about health and safety South African labour law allows incapacity as a reason for termination, but traditionally it referred to poor work performance or medical incapacity. However, there are also broader categories of incapacity and the lack of a certificate of fitness falls into this category. Some employers have approached the pension funds to pay disability benefits to those employees who cannot work because they are vulnerable to Covid-19. The response across the board has been “no”. Employers can take the following steps: Authors: Kate Collier, Lizle Louw – Webber Wentzel Building a corporate culture of sustainability Related: ERG’s Metalkol RTR commits to responsible minerals assurance process Webber Wentzel’s Economic Development Plan (EDP) can help mining companies to: The EDP must be done on a company-by-company basis, making ESG goals easier to implement in practice. AUTHORS: Jonathan Veeran, Paula-Ann Novotny – Webber Wentzel Environmental pollution has far-reaching consequences The number of class actions stemming from environmental pollution events is rising internationally, and especially in Africa and South Africa. These events need not be current. South African law also covers historic pollution or pollution on land that a company owns or controls. Even if the company was not the perpetrator, it has a duty to address it: Addressing this pollution is very complex and requires technical expertise. However, there is a risk that remedial measures could incur liability in the event of a subsequent class action. We advise a company to: It is necessary to have a co-ordinated action plan, with technical and communications teams working together. There must be very strict document management procedures (including notes and boardroom minutes) and timeline management. Ignoring these steps could result in administrative directives/compliance notices or even criminal liability, up to board level. Class actions, multi-party actions or representative actions allow a number of individuals bringing an action against the same party to combine in one lawsuit. AUTHORS: Garyn Rapson, Merlita Kennedy – Webber Wentzel