Gold Fields’ South Deep mine has called on all employees and communities to be mindful of applying preventative measures to protect against the second wave of COVID-19 in South Africa. Applying preventative measures such as washing and sanitising hands regularly, wearing masks properly, practicing social distancing and staying home is still the best way to protect oneself, families and communities. Read more: Dr Thuthula Balfour: Fighting the unrecognised pandemic “We have seen an alarming increase in COVID-19 infections nationwide,” says Dr Khutso Setati, Occupational Medical Practitioner at Gold Fields’ South Deep mine. “Sadly, many South Africans have lost their lives or suffered the loss of someone dear to them. Together we can help to prevent more people from becoming sick or losing their lives. This will require selflessness and diligence in doing the right things at all times.” “One simple, yet highly effective way is by wearing a mask whenever we leave our homes. Masks reduce the spray of respiratory droplets by forming a simple barrier, which helps to prevent these droplets from traveling into the air and onto other people when the person wearing the mask coughs, sneezes or talks. But, masks are only effective if they cover your nose and mouth “Wearing a mask can be inconvenient and uncomfortable, especially in summer, but the alternative is much worse. Remember, when we wear a mask, we protect others. And, when others wear a mask, they protect us.” Dr Setati notes that the rising COVID-19 infection rates have put the healthcare systems and workers under immense pressure. Read more: Gold Fields settles into ‘new normal’ post COVID-19 “Now, more than ever before, we must do everything in our power to stop the spread. When we move around we carry the virus with us wherever we go. Staying at home and avoiding public and social gatherings helps to stop the spread. When leaving home, we should always ask ourselves if it is absolutely necessary to do so. “We know the right things to do. Do them for yourself and the people you care about,” says Dr Setati. As at 6 January, South Africa recorded 21 832 new cases of COVID-19 and a total of 188 984 active cases.