TSXV-listed Orezone Gold Corporation has selected Sila Equipement, an established Burkinabé company, as its open pit mining contractor for the Bomboré gold project in Burkina Faso. Read more: Orezone selects EPCM contractor for Bomboré gold project An important schedule milestone is the mining of the off-channel reservoir, which will serve as the main water storage facility during operations. The mobilisation of Sila will ensure that the off-channel reservoir and its related infrastructure will be ready well in advance of the onset of the 2022 rainy season. “The early award of the mining contract will allow our project to remain on schedule. I am pleased that Sila, a local contractor, has been awarded this work, which speaks to the depth and continued growth of the mining service industry in Burkina Faso,” says Orezone President and CEO Patrick Downey. “The company’s selection of Sila was made after a competitive tender and due diligence process including a review of safety and operational performance in free-dig oxide operations such as Bomboré. Sila has demonstrated an excellent track record in other similar Burkina Faso mining operations. “The proposed mining fleet is brand new equipment and will be operated by Sila’s highly experienced senior operations and maintenance team,” says Downey. Sila’s initial contract scope covers the mining of the off-channel reservoir pit and includes the upfront establishment of mine site services (maintenance workshops, wash bays, warehouse, ablutions and accommodations, offices, and communications), the clearing and grubbing of the off-channel reservoir footprint including topsoil relocation as well as pit dewatering and haul road maintenance. The company is working in partnership with Sila to finalise certain key terms under the long-term mining contract. “With the project financing now in place, we are rapidly advancing the engineering, procurement, and construction of the project,” adds Downey. Since the recent appointment of Lycopodium Minerals in January 2021 as the EPCM contractor, the company has rapidly advanced engineering and procurement activities, and made significant progress on refining the project construction timeline. Orezone’s key procurement and site-based activities in the upcoming months will be focused on the following: The company will provide a further update on the construction timetable once refinement of the project schedule is completed with Lycopodium.