TOMRA’s approach in developing its new diamond microsite reflects the Company’s holistic approach to supporting its customers: by opening easy access to comprehensive technical information, it enables diamond producers to understand the possibilities offered by its recovery solutions, how they would fit within their operations, and how they would be adding value. “We want to allow our potential clients and end-users better access to all of our technical information so that they can understand our solutions and best implement them,” states Ryan Szabo, Sales and Project Manager Diamonds at TOMRA Mining. Easy-to-navigate comprehensive information Navigation of the diamond microsite is intuitive and the detailed information is presented in a clear and easy-to-understand format. “We developed it based on the questions our customers ask during our meetings” explains Ryan Szabo. Read more articles about technology The microsite’s Homepage opens with a clear statement of TOMRA’s promise to diamond producers: 100% detection in the specified range, irrespective of luminescence profile or coating, and a guaranteed diamond recovery greater than 99%. Scrolling down, viewers can see at a glance the stages of the process where TOMRA sorters can add value: Concentration with its XRT sorters and Pre-concentration with its Color and Near Infrared (NIR) solutions – and they will discover that a solution for Final Recovery will soon be available. This will be an industry first: XRT recovery technology down to the size of a 2mm rough diamond, which will deliver concentration factors up to 1 Million with a much-reduced number of concentration stages. Process flowsheets highlight how TOMRA sorters can add value In the Applications section of the microsite, a flowsheet shows where the different TOMRA machines fit in the recovery process and how they add value. Further detail is provided in animations of process flow diagrams in Kimberlite, Alluvial batch fed and Alluvial continuous feed applications. “With these flowsheets we want to help our customers to navigate and understand where the equipment goes, adds Ryan Szabo. “We show the locations where the sorters fit within different types of operations. This will give the customers an understanding of how the process can be simplified and the number of stages that can be replaced by the TOMRA sorters.” Open access to detailed product information The product page provides detailed technical information – product sheets, General Arrangement drawings and 3D CAD drawings. Customers can even download a 3D model and place it in their plant’s 3D drawings to see exactly how it would fit, what it would change in their set-up and how. Details on TOMRA’s service and connectivity offering to ensure maximum uptime Details of TOMRA’s Service Level Agreements are also on the microsite. Unique on the market, these plans offer tailored solutions to match client requirements and protect their investment. The Service section includes information about TOMRA Insight, the cloud-based solution that turns the customer’s sorters into connected devices and provides secure, real-time monitoring. TOMRA’s promise backed up by customers Customers considering the integration of TOMRA’s solutions in their operation can also find information about existing installations. They can hear from diamond producers about their experience with TOMRA and learn about the potential benefits in an interview with Geoffrey Madderson, Diamond Segment Manager for TOMRA Sorting Mining. They can also view photographs of remarkable diamond recoveries and existing installations such as the one at Karowe mine in Botswana, where record-breaking diamonds have been recovered with TOMRA’s XRT technology. Visit the new dedicated website: www.tomradiamonds.com