This week Emmerson received good news from the Moroccan Ministry of Energy, Mines and the Environment. As we know potash is a potassium-rich salt mined from evaporated sea beds from millions of years ago. Potassium is an essential element for all plant, animal and human life – making Emmerson’s good news, everyone’s good news. Emmerson has been granted their Mining Licence for its 100%-owned Khemisset Potash Project. Related:Emmerson targets finalisation of Khemisset permitting by H1 2021Emmerson raises £1.72 million for Khemisset potash project The Mining Licence provides the company with the exclusive right to develop and mine a potash deposit, within the perimeter of the Mining Licence, in the Khemisset basin ahead of the anticipated initiation of construction by the end of 2021. Graham Clarke, Emmerson’s CEO, comments: “This is another major milestone in the development of what is to become the first large scale potash mine in Africa. “We are grateful to the Ministry that provided considerable support, greatly assisting us throughout the application process. “By producing up to 800,000 tonnes of potash per year, for export or domestic consumption, Khemisset is forecast to deliver considerable economic benefits to our stakeholders including an anticipated 1% increase to the national tax revenues of Morocco. “At the local level, the benefit to our stakeholders is even more important, with an estimated 40% increase to the local area GDP. “We are all extremely proud to have achieved this most recent milestone, with the help of an expert team focused on putting this potash mine into production. “I want to thank our hosts in Morocco and all the key members of the Emmerson team who have worked hard to deliver this well ahead of our original timeline. A feasibility study has highlighted Khemisset’s outstanding attributes that include: industry leading capital and operating costs and an initial mine life of 19 years. This is based on less than 50% of the global resource base for the project. The Mining Licence encompasses the full resource base allowing simple expansion of the operations in the future without the requirement to re-permit.