Anglo American is making available up to US$30 million of support towards the global roll-out of Covid-19 vaccines across its operational footprint. The nature of the contribution, consisting of cash and in-kind support, will differ by country based on the vaccine deployment models being adopted by, and the needs of, each country. Read more about articles about COVID-19 Anglo American’s support is expected to include contributions towards the procurement of vaccines by host governments, as well as logistical support and health and other infrastructure required to facilitate the efficient roll-out of vaccines. Mark Cutifani, Chief Executive of Anglo American, says: “Anglo American has a long history of supporting major public health programmes to help improve the health of our employees and host communities, as well as running major health facilities around our operations over many decades. “This is in our DNA as a company – it is how we do business. We must help in any way we can.” In South Africa, Anglo American will support the national Covid-19 vaccine programme – led by the government – by allocating US$10 million (c. ZAR150 million) of the company’s global support commitment. This contribution of cash and in-kind support includes: Nolitha Fakude, Chair of Anglo American’s Management Board in South Africa, says: “By supporting the South African government’s efforts to roll out vaccines at speed and scale, we are making a further positive contribution to helping protect the lives and livelihoods of millions of South Africans. “This is a significant undertaking, which requires business, labour, civil society and government to work together for the benefit of all. We are particularly pleased to be working with the government, the Minerals Council of South Africa and Business for South Africa (B4SA) to play a role in this national effort.” Anglo American is working with the authorities in each of the countries where it operates to best assist vaccine roll-out efforts. Through its contributions, Anglo American is committed to the fair and equitable distribution of vaccines. Mark Cutifani adds: “The success of the global vaccine roll-out is dependent on how we come together, in the spirit of solidarity, to make vaccines available to all. We support the principle of prioritising certain groups – such as frontline healthcare workers – before expanding vaccine distribution to other population groups as quickly as possible. “We recognise that each of our various jurisdictions will have different frameworks for the roll-out of vaccines, and we will support these to the best of our endeavours. The more of us that are vaccinated, the safer we will all be and the more quickly we can help rebuild our economies.”