For any new project, particularly smaller projects, financial viability remains key and this can be enhanced through the incorporation of new age technologies. In the field of grinding, Loesche has a lot to offer. The African continent is home to an abundance of natural resources – and a wide array of junior and mid-tier mining companies looking to make their operational mark within the industry. This article first appeared in Mining Elites in Africa 2021Read the full digimag here or subscribe to receive a print copy here Following extensive research and development, Loesche has developed an economical, small and compact grinding plant which is containerised and easily relocatable. “These features form the foundation upon which our plant’s true benefits can be seen,” says Jonathan Smith, Sales & Marketing Manager at Loesche South Africa and Sub Saharan Africa. “Due to the extreme remoteness of many of the new deposits being developed, sourcing power and water has become an even greater hurdle than what is typically experienced. “Thanks to our plant’s small footprint, it can easily be adapted to operate using generators or solar power and it further requires substantially lower volumes of water as well,” he continues. The Loesche plant (incorporating the vertical mill roller (VRM)) can be operated in a ‘dry state’ until the recovery process is necessitated, which can either be flotation or carbon in-leach or a combination. Gravity separation can also be included. Loesche has managed to identify a potential partner for the recovery circuits. This potential partner is a specialist in the recovery circuit component, especially in gold methods such as flotation and carbon-in-leach in small scale processing applications. This is achievable by adding a separate gravity separation process, which can also be included as most of these deposits are characterised by having available free gold. The Loesche VRM more specifically utilises dry in-bed grinding and therefore offers the option to be stored in product silos and be precisely dosed into the downstream process. This enables operations to de-couple the comminution process from the downstream process, enabling the optimisation of both processes individually. “And thanks to a much more simplified maintenance regime, the Loesche system’s power and water usage requirements are reduced further – also contributing to improving an operation’s expenses, which in turn improves profitability,” adds Smith. Building on an attractive product proposition In response to the junior (in particular) industry’s needs, Loesche has also expanded its service offering in support of its dry grinding equipment. “Our focus is on providing a complete and cost-effective solution that incorporates: On the back of this full solution offering, Loesche has been working closely with two iron ore mining projects, one in Australia and the second in Canada, and in both cases the projects have determined beneficial reasons to incorporate Loesche equipment which enhances their recovery processes. The company has also been actively busy across the African continent working with potential customers in the fields of gold, tin, phosphates, copper and lithium. “Ores today are becoming complicated and are also lower in recoverable minerals. And while a traditional wet process is specified for almost all operations and all ore types, environmental and power challenges being experienced within the mining sector continue to highlight the need to move into the future by evaluating and introducing milling and recovery circuits capable of handling these complicated ores, without being impacted by the challenges mentioned, and while still increasing recoveries and reducing operational expenses,” Smith notes. He continues: “Due to the resistance of change in the current mining industry, which is hesitant to move from current tried and tested methods, Loesche South Africa has had to adapt its strategic business models to incorporate removing the barriers of entry. “We offer an experienced team of professionals now working even more closely with identified small to medium size mining houses on projects that will move them to the foreground of mining methods and increase their profitability. “These identified companies have welcomed Loesche’s willingness to assist and have confidence in Loesche to establish the best possible solution.” The start-up process When small-scale miners are awarded a mining concession, procurement of equipment is key: It needs to be selected carefully as specific requirements need to be identified to suit the ore type being mined. The comminution and recovery circuits will determine the process flow to extract the mineral at the highest recovery rate. Loesche can assist with basic process engineering and test work to advise the client accordingly. The miner can also start up with a small process plant such as Loesche’s containerised plant and use profits from the operation to build the main process plant at a later stage, after which the containerised plant can be relocated to a new mining concession. By adopting this thought process, Loesche can see profitable small-scale miners growing into substantial operating companies attracting investors for further growth. “Our main focus is to prove to mining houses that in order to be sustainable in the future, a new approach needs to be adopted to continue the profitability of mines whilst adhering to best practices and greener technologies that make mining more and more difficult,” Smith concludes.