The mineral exploration and mining industry will come together – virtually – on March 8-11, 2021, for the Prospectors & Developers Association of Canada’s (PDAC) 2021 Convention. This year marks the 89th year for the iconic event. As the COVID-19 pandemic continues to affect travel and major gatherings, PDAC recognizes that staying connected is more important than ever before for members, exhibitors, sponsors, attendees and numerous partners. PDAC Convention has always been unmatched in its ability to connect participants to the international mining and exploration community and keep them informed of the latest industry news and trends through extensive programming. “The PDAC Convention is the world’s premier mineral exploration and mining industry convention. We are excited to provide the high-quality programming attendees have come to expect by offering a fully virtual experience to participants for the first time,” says Felix Lee, PDAC President. “We are encouraged by the prospect of reaching an even greater number of international attendees who may not be able to attend our event in person.” Attendees will engage in 100+ hours of high calibre content across a diverse spectrum of highly-acclaimed programs including Capital Markets Program, Indigenous Program, Short Courses, Sustainability Program, Technical Program, Keynote Program and new International Stage (formerly known as Presentation & Reception Rooms) highlighting experts on commodities, mineral outlook post-COVID-19, as well as technological advances. Continued education will be accessible even beyond convention though the new presentation content uploaded post-convention and available for three months. The International Mines Ministers’ Summit (IMMS)—a unique event bringing together Mines Ministers from around the world—is returning for the sixth consecutive year. Co-hosted with the World Economic Forum, the IMMS provides a communal setting for sharing insights and taking part in discussions that are aimed at enhancing the positive impacts the industry can provide to communities and regions globally. As the largest marketplace of its kind, PDAC 2021 will have the online exhibit hall featuring customized booths with downloadable content, company brochures, investor materials, videos and much more. Attendees will be able to book meetings with exhibitor representatives via video or text chat. As the world’s number one mining and investment show, PDAC 2021 will offer personalized access to targeted contacts, while helping to strengthen ties with new and existing partners. After answering a series of questions, the matchmaking algorithm will suggest a list of other like-minded attendees, sessions that align with your interests and exhibitors matching your selected criteria. In addition, every attendee will be able to browse the attendee directory by name, company, country and other criteria based on your goals. Meaningful connections can be made from anywhere on the platform in real time though text or video chats. Enjoy the social side of PDAC 2021 with musical acts, exclusive tours, interactive events and more! A variety of engaging entertainment will be showcased throughout the four days of convention. Earn rewards and win prizes just by participating! Visit select exhibitors, view sessions, learn about new products and more – there are a number of engaging ways to collect points and win. NEW for 2021: All pass holders will have access to the Awards Gala (previously a ticketed event) and connect with the Award recipients via live chat. Stay tuned for event details as they are announced. “We are committed to providing a first-class experience to participants—wherever they are in the world,” says Lee. For more #PDAC2021 information and the latest programming details, head to www.pdac.ca/convention.