After a positive year in 2020 despite the Covid-19 pandemic, SRK Consulting has announced the appointment of new partners and associate partners, as well as a new corporate consultant. According to SRK Consulting managing director Vis Reddy, these promotions confirm that the company’s succession plans are working well – leveraging its experience and skills to continue providing the highest possible quality of services. “These new appointments enhance our technical leadership and create additional capacity for our mentorship and development initiatives,” said Reddy. “They also support our ambitions for future growth of the organisation.” Partnerships in the firm were bestowed on Tiaan Bauman, Laetitia Coetser, Sharon Jones, Grant Macfarlane, Sue Reuther and Colin Wessels – while Tiaan Claassen, Ivan Doku and Lindsay Shand became associate partners. Lindsay Linzer was appointed as corporate consultant. Tiaan Bauman, a principal civil engineer at SRK in Johannesburg, has 24 years of experience in the public, private and mining sectors – with specialities including hydraulics, stormwater management and wastewater treatment plants. Laetitia Coetser is a principal water and environmental scientist at SRK in Pretoria, and has spent over 23 years in environmental consulting, focused mainly on mining and industry. Based in SRK’s Cape Town office, Sharon Jones is a principal environmental consultant who has worked around Africa for over 20 years with a focus on port and marine projects, renewable energy, mining and infrastructure projects. Grant Macfarlane is a principal engineering geologist with 33 years of experience in engineering geology and geotechnical engineering; based in Johannesburg, his work has included tailings storage facility designs, detailed geotechnical site investigations, earthworks and pavement design. Principal environmental consultant Sue Reuther works in SRK’s Cape Town office and has specialised for the past 18 years in environmental impact assessment (EIA), socio-economic and resource economic impact assessment, and strategic environmental reporting. Colin Wessels, a principal engineering geologist in SRK’s Pietermaritzburg office, has 17 years of experience specialising in a wide range of geotechnical investigations including mining infrastructure, tailings dams and earth fill dams. Newly appointed associate partner Tiaan Claassen is a principal engineering technologist in SRK’s Port Elizabeth office, and has spent 14 years specialising in the design and implementation of various civil engineering projects – including maintenance of infrastructure. Principal resource geologist Ivan Doku is SRK’s country manager for Ghana, and has 14 years of experience in QAQC management, geological modelling, mineral resource estimation and due diligence audits. Lindsay Shand is a principal environmental geologist in the SRK Cape Town office and has worked in environmental land contamination for the past 20 years, also specialising in waste management, water quality assessment and EIAs. A geophysicist in SRK’s Johannesburg office, Lindsay Linzer is now also a corporate consultant for the company. With 25 years of experience in processing and interpreting seismic waves, she has applied the latest seismic interpretation technology to extract information vital to shaft-sinking, optimal borehole siting and mine-planning. Reddy said that these appointments recognise the performance that has been achieved even during a challenging year. He noted that the company had seen through a few difficult months early in the pandemic but had ended the year well. “Many of our systems were tested by the challenge of suddenly having to work remotely, but they have stood up well; with some adjustments, we were able to maintain a good level of productivity through 2020,” he said. “One of the standout features during this period was the ability of our staff to embrace the new reality and remain productive during this period.”  From left to right: Colin Wessels; Grant Macfarlane; Laetitia Coetser; Sue Reuther; Sharon Jones, Tiaan Bauman From left to right: Ivan Doku; Tiaan Claassen; Lindsay Linzer; Lindsay Shand