Investment in exploration is crucial to ensure the sustainability of the South African mining industry through the discovery of new projects, but the country has been unable to attract a large enough share of the global exploration budget needed to reignite its junior mining and exploration sector, writes CHANTELLE KOTZE. While the Department of Minerals Resources and Energy (DMRE) acknowledges the need to rebuild the mining sector, given that the economy remains dependent on the sector for foreign earnings, the lack of tools and incentives to boost the junior mining and exploration sector is in stark contrast to this goal. This article first appeared in Mining Review Africa Issue 1, 2021Read the full digimag here or subscribe to receive a print copy here As a crucial first step in the project cycle, exploration is expected to become a key focus for South Africa as the DMRE looks to release a six-point exploration strategy aimed at creating an enabling environment in which to expedite exploration to take place within the country. Read more articles about exploration Speaking at the Junior Indaba, DMRE Minister Gwede Mantashe said that he recognises the critical attributes that support junior mining exploration activities, namely, regulatory certainty, transparency in licensing system, and the investment into competitive geological data. Read more about articles about South Africa In this regard, the government has allocated over R268 million towards the establishment of a geoscience research library and for geological mapping. Related:Council for Geoscience: Environmentally conscious miningCouncil for Geoscience: Championing a lower carbon energy economy Plans are under way to improve the quality of geoscience information available for investors through the Council for Geoscience and the DMRE is also well underway with the finalisation of the exploration implementation plan, together with the Minerals Council South Africa and the Council for Geoscience. Through its plan to resuscitate Greenfield exploration in South Africa through the geological mapping programme, Mantashe has a set a target for South Africa to move from capturing 1% of global exploration spend to between 3% and 5% within the next five years. “We believe this will boost investor confidence due to availability of more reliable geoscience data,” Mantashe said. Industry remains bullish on South Africa’s exploration potential In a panel discussion, aimed at dissecting the current climate for junior mining and exploration in South Africa, also held as part of the Junior Indaba, PwC’s Africa energy, utilities and resources leader Andries Rossouw said that massive untapped exploration opportunities still exists in South Africa. According to Rossouw, every R1 billion in additional spend injected into exploration activities by mining companies, potentially contributes about R1.2 billion to the country’s GDP through both direct, indirect and induced impacts; 3 200 new jobs direct and indirect jobs; and R0.3 billion added to total government revenue through direct and indirect tax collections. Should South Africa manage to capture the full 5% of the global exploration budget as envisioned by Mantashe, then the country would have R8.8 billion of exploration expenditure, a R10.2 billion contribution to the GDP, create 27 700 jobs and generate R7.2 billion in tax revenue. This sentiment was shared by Errol Smart, CEO of Orion Minerals and also the chair of the Junior and Emerging Miners Leadership Forum of the Minerals Council South Africa. Smart believes that “the impact of investing in exploration is short and is significant” and has a massive potential impact on the country’s GDP and job creation. Smart is pleased that DMRE has reached a point where exploration licencing and permitting as well as the country’s geological mapping database is being formalised. He believes that this will assist the Minerals Council in its endeavour to incentivise exploration, while enabling the exploration sector to attract foreign direct investment through its mineral wealth. Also part of the panel, Council for Geoscience CEO Musa Mabuza says that South Africa is in a unique position to resuscitate exploration activity and turn the country into an ‘exploration site’ for the benefit of junior and emerging miners in particular. The six-point exploration strategy is aimed at doing just that, he says. Meanwhile, boutique tax consulting firm Tax Lexicon founder Muhammad Saloojee noted that there is no real incentives or tax breaks for investors, junior miners or prospectors under the current tax regime, but noted that this challenge would be addressed through the six-point plan. The lack of incentives has further been exacerbated by a lack of funding or capital available for the junior mining sector says Lili Nupen, director of legal firm Nupen Staude de Vries. Nupen notes that the challenges have mainly arisen from concerns around the regulatory environment, in that while South Africa has a world-class regulatory system, the challenge lies in that the regime is a one-size-fits-all system and is not fit for both junior and major mining companies. Nupen suggests a more relaxed or flexible regulation for juniors which may assist in attracting investment into the sector. She also calls for public-listed market development and market participation by a diversity of investors. Minerals Council South Africa CEO Roger Baxter shares the view of Mantashe that with the right interventions, South Africa could grow exploration to 3% of global expenditure within five years and mining could contribute upwards of 10% to South Africa’s GDP, and in so doing, grow GDP overall and help lead the economic recovery post-COVID-19.