Canyon Coal held a graduation ceremony for the 2018/19 Adult Basic Education Training (ABET) at its Phalanndwa Colliery near Delmas in Mpumalanga on 23 October 2020. ABET forms part of the skills development commitment within the Social and Labour Plan (SLP) for Phalanndwa Colliery. Read more articles about Phalanndwa Colliery and Menar The aim of ABET is to develop the educational levels of the community through learning. The programme offers all eligible employees and community members opportunities to become functionally literate and numerate. The ABET programme was conducted by service provider Triple E Training at the Phalanndwa ABET Training Centre, which was specifically constructed at a cost of R45 200. Menar Group Social Licensing Manager Xolile Mankayi, noted that between 2018 and 2019, 9 groups of 15 people were trained from Level 1 to Level 4 (NQF 1) in numeracy and literacy at the Phalanndwa ABET Training Centre. Moreover, since its establishment in 2015 over 60 people have been upskilled through ABET programmes run at the mine. Xolile congratulated all those that had completed their respective educational levels in the programme and praised them for seeking to empower themselves educationally. “Within the community, there are individuals that, for whatever reasons, could not complete school. “The ABET programme provides an opportunity for such individuals to become functionally literate and numerate. “This programme is underrated by many who don’t understand the National Qualification Framework (NQF) principle of progressive learning which increases the opportunities of further enrolling for other skills development programmes and employment opportunities provided by the company,” he stated. Special mention was made of Lindiwe Martha Mokone, who achieved Foundational Learning Competence or NQF4 certification which is equivalent to a matric. Lindiwe, a 25-year-old resident of Argent and a mother of two, explained that she dropped out of school in grade 10 due to personal circumstances. “Canyon Coal’s ABET programme has given me the opportunity to complete my high school education.” Menar Social Labour Plan Manager Nthabiseng Ocia Mueti in conclusion stated: “The success of the ABET programme at Phalanndwa Colliery can be attributed to participants commitment to learn and the resources provided by Canyon Coal to support the programme. “We hope that the knowledge attained by graduates will aid them to improve their quality of life and encourage them to continue their educational advancement, while also enhancing their employment prospects.”