Botswana Diamonds (BOD) has entered into a cooperation agreement to fund exploration of its prospecting licence assets in Botswana with Diamexstrat Botswana (DESB). Diamexstrat Botswana, in turn has an alliance agreement with Burgundy Diamond Mines. Related:Botswana Diamonds nears completion of Sekaka acquisitionBotswana Diamonds begins drilling on Thorny River and Marsfontein Botswana Diamonds (BOD)’s prospecting assets comprise the recently acquired Sekaka Diamonds Exploration database and Prospecting Licenses, as well as the Prospecting Licences held by BOD’s subsidiary, Sunland Minerals. Read more articles about diamonds James Campbell, BOD MD, comments: “I am delighted to partner with Diamexstrat to progress our extensive and highly prospective exploration assets in Botswana which comprises Sekaka Diamonds (acquired last year) and with our own drill-ready prospects in Sunland Minerals. “I look forward to working with the Diamexstrat and Burgundy teams made-up of complimentary highly experienced and leading experts in the field of diamond exploration and project development”. John Teeling, BOD chairman, comments: “Botswana is one of the world’s best addresses for diamond exploration. “The combination of a fresh approach and advanced technology, supported by a recovering diamond market, presents us with significant opportunities. “I am delighted to announce this partnership with experienced Diamexstrat, and its ASX listed-partner, Burgundy, which expands and deepens our exploration work. “This is a comprehensive agreement. On our ground, DESB (and partners) will get 51% of each licence by discovering a diamondiferous kimberlite rising, to 70% by completing a bankable feasibility study. “Where our database is used to find targets on ground held by the partners, there is a free carry for BOD of 15% on the first US$1.5m spent on exploration. “Where the data is used to identify targets on third party licences or on fresh ground, we will jointly negotiate earn in agreements. On new licences, BOD will hold 75% falling to 30% on delivery of a bankable feasibility study by DESB”. Cooperation Agreement highlights: