Amongst the many achievements driven by Teranga Gold, local female entrepreneurs have received the training and equipment to cultivate cassava and now produce 4 t of cassava a month. Teranga Gold Corporation’s new Wahgnion mine, which declared commercial production in November 2019, is a winner. The team there has also demonstrated a responsible approach to resettlement and a positive impact on local livelihoods. This article first appeared in Mining Elites in Africa 2021Read the full digimag here or subscribe to receive a print copy here Wahgnion’s Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) and Livelihood Restoration Plan (LRP) are designed to mitigate and compensate for the physical and economic displacement impacts resulting from mine development. “Underlining its impressive credentials, the LRF at Wahgnion featured in the World Gold Council’s report on gold mining’s contribution to the UN’s sustainable development goals in 2020.” – Tom Quinn Teranga is determined to work hand in hand with local stakeholders to ensure that communities affected by the Wahgnion mine will be better off following physical and economic displacement. A community consultation committee reviews plans and makes consensus-based decisions for the RAP and LRP. Broad and equitable representation is an important consideration, with women, youth and representatives from all impacted communities in the region playing a central role in the discussions. “Exceptional efforts in a technically and legally complicated environment.” – Jonathan Veeran Stakeholders also have access to a grievance mechanism to address any concerns or complaints. The Wahgnion resettlement will resettle 500 households at six sites over five years. The first relocations have been completed, with three communities having moved into their newly constructed villages in 2019 and 2020. Further phases are planned through to 2023. After two years of technical and material support, 539 local women have established links with an agricultural supply company, an opportunity the local entrepreneurs have seized with both hands. To date, they have sold 54 t of shea nuts at a 60% premium to the local market price, generating over US$10 000 in income. All LRP programmes are monitored regularly, with progress indicators calculated monthly and impact indicators measured every three years. An evaluation will be carried out at the end of the LRP in order to verify whether the livelihoods of the populations affected by the Wahgnion project have been restored. TSX-listed Teranga Gold, which also operates the Sabodala/Massawa mine in Senegal, has an excellent record on sustainability and has won international recognition for its work.