​In a judgement set to send shockwaves throughout the mining sector, the Supreme Court of Appeal (SCA) has taken the view that a valid Environmental Management Programme (EMPr) approved in terms of the Mineral and Petroleum Resources Act (MPRDA), prior to the coming into effect of the “One Environmental System” (i.e. 8 December 2014), cannot be regarded as an Environmental Authorisation (EA) issued in terms of the National Environmental Management Act (NEMA) notwithstanding the transitional provisions introduced by the National Environmental Management Amendment Act. This position has been expressed in a judgement handed down in the case of Global Environmental Trust and Others v Tendele Coal Mining and Others (1105/2019) [2021] ZASCA 13 (09 February 2021). Read more: Tendele Mining wins court battle to keep Somkhele open The SCA found that the transitional provisions which reinforced the implementation of the One Environmental System, did not elevate the status of an MPRDA EMPr to that of a NEMA EA but rather that it should be deemed to be an EMPr approved in terms of NEMA. Read more articles about business and policy The SCA’s found that an MPRDA EMPr does not authorise NEMA listed activities whose impacts must be assessed prior to the issuance of an EA for mining activities. Read more articles about mining in South Africa The implication of this is that all mining companies which never complied with the NEMA regime (and the Environmental Conservation Act, 1989 (ECA) before that) and which relied on their MPRDA approved EMPrs will urgently need to assess the lawfulness of their operations. Read more articles about the environment From around 1997/98 the ECA, and then the NEMA regime, has required records of decision (ECA) and EAs (NEMA) to conduct Listed Activities as Gazetted under these Acts. Mining companies will need to assess any new operations which started post1997/98, as well as all major expansion projects to determine if records of decision / EAs were required, despite having had an EMPr approved. If this is the case, mining companies should seek legal advice to decide whether to submit applications to rectify the non-compliance (under section 24G of NEMA, which applications are notoriously risky). The SCA finding is a departure from the intention of the legislature which is reflected in section 12(4) of the 2008 NEMA Amendment Act which paved the way for the One Environmental System. Unfortunately, however, section 12(4) of the 2008 NEMA Amendment Act does say that MPRDA approved EMPrs should be considered to be NEMA EMPrs. This does not make a lot of practical or legal sense, which prompted the industry to accept generally that the intention must have been that MPRDA approved EMPrs should be deemed to be a NEMA EA and EMPr. This view was taken because MPRDA EMPrs were considered to be a sufficient tool for the assessment of environmental impacts associated with mining activities as it required applicants to undertake a similar environmental impact assessment process as that prescribed in NEMA. The Department of Mineral Resources and Energy regularly processes a variety of applications on the premise that old MPRDA approved EMPrs are considered to be NEMA EAs. Oddly enough, the SCA has taken the opposite view with its position that a Waste Management Licence (WML) is not required for any mining related waste management activities which were lawfully undertaken (including in terms of an MPRDA EMPr), prior to the commencement of the WML regime. The longstanding lacuna regarding the status of MPRDA EMPr’s can easily be resolved if section 38B(1) of the 2008 MPRD Amendment Act were to be brought into effect, which unequivocally states that “An environmental management plan or environmental management programme approved in terms of this Act before and at the time of the coming into effect of the National Environmental Management Act, 1998, shall be deemed to have been approved and an environmental authorisation been issued in terms of the National Environmental Management Act 1998“. Although this section has never been brought into effect by the President, it reflects the intention of the legislature. The SCA judgement will likely have far reaching implications for the mining sector which has placed reliance on the One Environmental System to undertake operations on the strength of MPRDA EMPrs and provides leeway for environmental interest groups to challenge the lawfulness of mining activities. The judgement will also place an impractical administrative burden on regulators which are likely to be flooded with applications seeking to regularise the lawfulness of their operations. Given the incredible implications, this judgement is likely to be challenged in the Constitutional Court. AUTHORS from Webber Wentzel: Garyn RapsonGillian NivenTendai Bonga